---
title: Expanding design to account for 60 claims
description: For MVP 100 and 60 claims are expected to be delivered
author:
  name: Hannah Williams
  url: '#'
date: 2024-05-30
tags:
  - processing-version-3
  - process-a-claim
aside:
  title:  Processing Prototypes
  content: |
    [View processing prototypes](https://adult-social-care-7fe9bafd955a.herokuapp.com/version-index?area=Processing) 
    Password: ascbsa123
---

## Why we did this work

For care skills funding there are two funding types: 100, and 60/40. So far the prototype and designs allow for 100 claims to be processed, but for MVP both 100 and 60 claims are expected to be delivered. There are differences between the information that is supplied by the submitter for these two types of claims so the designs need to be changed and considered to allow for them to be processed. The 40 part of the 60/40 claim is not expected to have any claims submitted for for quite some time so some scope that they may not need to be included for MVP, but because so closely linked with 60, still need to be considered during the design process to allow for a holistic journey and reduce amount of work needing to be done in the future.

## What our ideas were

One of our biggest questions for a 60/40 claim is whether the 60 / 40 parts of the claim are two seperate claims to be processed seperately or two parts of the same claim. This is something that is also being considered in the submitter journey alongside, on how we present. The two parts of a 60/40 claim will still be submitted at different moments of time and the 40 will only be processed if the 60 part is approved, so to fit into the current flow of a 100 claim, it fits as can be judged in isolation.

We believe that problem areas with 60/40 claims going into the condensed MVP single screen is the calculation of the reimbursement amount as this is already a area identified as confusing for processors with room for error, 

>**We believe that** reimbursement amount is going to the 
>**Will be needed for** 
>**As it will** 


>**We believe that** well considered content
>**Will be needed for** processors
>**As it will** allow them accurately calculate reimbursement amount.

>**We believe that** automatically calculating the reimbursement amount
>**Will be needed for** processors
>**As it will** reduce the mental load. 

>**We believe that** the claim outcome screen
>**Will be needed for** processors 
>**As it will** provide space for content on reimbursment amount explanations and what is going to happen next.

#### Screenshot
- of the 60/40 submitter journey.
This is the information the submitter has supplied and needs to be presented to the processor to process their claim correctly.
This is the current view of the 100 claim processor journey.



## How we tested our ideas and what we found

## What we will do next
- For closing comments on the UCD log, give some information on what the next steps are with this piece of work, are there any further iterations that could be made but may not be as high priority just yet, is there further research to be done on a certain part of the design. Talk about things you were not able to do as part of this design that you want to be raised at a later stage and how this has been documented to be revisited.



