---
title: Supporting the onboarding process
description: How we supported NHSBSA to design an effective, scaleable onboarding process for private beta.
author:
  name: Nick Johnstone-Waddell
  url: 'mailto:hi.nick.johnstone.waddell@nhsbsa.nhs.uk'
date: 2024-06-11
modified: 2024-06-11
tags:
  - onboarding
  - private-beta
  - content
---

## Why we did this work

DHSC and NHSBSA were keen to quickly onboard adult social care (ASC) organisations to the live service during private beta. This is important to see how the service is performing in the real world, understand how well the scheme is understood and utilise the fund effectively by getting as much money as possible to claimants.

This required an onboarding strategy that could easily be scaled up or down depending on capacity within the BSA operations team and how well the new service was bearing up under early use.

As a UCD team we were very keen to feed into this work as we knew the system better than anyone and based on previous experiences on other projects could advise about best practice.

## What our ideas were

We started by developing a set of emails to standardise the process of telling prospective organisations about the service, inviting them to express interest in using it, and onboarding the first users.

* **Email 1: Broad expression of interest** - this included a survey for organisations to tell the NHSBSA if they’d like to use the service
* **Email 2: Selected to participate in private beta** - this informed organisations that had been selected to participate in the private beta and provided a second survey for them to fill in to book their onboarding call
* **Email 3: Confirm onboarding call** - this provided the date and time of the onboarding call
* **Email 4a: Sign up for SRO account** - this email was generated by the service and provided the SRO with a custom sign up link as part of the onboarding call
* **Email 4b: Sign for submitter account** - this email was generated by the service and provided a submitter (someone with delegated access from the SRO) with a custom sign up link

Email 1 proved to be the most difficult to finalise as it required input from the DHSC and NHSBSA communications teams. The challenge was in the tension between highlighting the benefits of the new service while also setting realistic expectations around the fact that early releases would have more basic functionality.

We agreed a form of words that kept everyone happy by saying:

> Taking part as an early user has some benefits to you and your organisation, including:  
>
> * ability to submit claims and receive reimbursement as soon as possible  
> * receiving additional support from the NHSBSA as you use the service 
> * the opportunity to feed into ongoing improvements

NHSBSA also asked us to develop an onboarding pack to provide ASC organisations with information to successfully start using the service.

We were initially keen for this to be hosted by the NHSBSA in HTML format. This would make it easy to manage version control. After talking to the communications team, this wasn’t possible so we settled on PDF format instead. We followed best practice (for example keeping the format simple and using an appropriately tagged heading hierarchy) to ensure that the file was as accessible as possible.

Here’s the information we included:

* ​​Contents
  - About the service
  - Reimbursement amounts
* Onboarding process
  - ​Senior Responsible Officer (SRO)
  - Submitters
* How to access the service
* Feedback and user research
* Further information and support
  - Video guides
  - Contact us

By keeping it simple, the onboarding pack was ready by the launch of the service.

## How we tested our ideas and what we found

Early testing of the emails with users suggested that it was hard for them to assess their usefulness outside of the real onboarding process. So we had agreed to put the emails into use and then gather rapid feedback. Processors were particularly well placed to provide feedback as SROs often told them during the onboarding calls whether the emails had been useful.

We found that the emails worked well but we identified many bits of wording we could improve. For example:

* we had feedback that some organisations were put off by thinking the new service would require a higher level of IT skills than they had, so we emphasised how quick and easy it is to start getting reimbursement
* due to deficiencies with the Azure B2C access management system, we learnt that we needed to stress that users should not click any buttons before being told to, as this could cause problems with setting up multifactor authentication

We also identified the need for 3 additional emails to remind organisations who had not completed the survey to identify their SRO and book their onboarding call, to provide a reminder the day before the onboarding call, and also to provide a summary of useful information following onboarding.

Making iterations was straightforward, as once the UCD team updated the Word file with the changes and these were signed off by the NHSBSA operations manager, the relevant knowledge base article was updated. All NHSBSA staff used this as the source when sending out the emails so once this was updated the changes went live immediately.

Here’s a list of the final set of emails:

* Email 1: Broad expression of interest
* Email 2a: Selected to participate in private beta
* Email 2b: Reminder about completing SRO survey [NEW]
* Email 3a: Confirm onboarding call
* Email 3b: Reminder of onboarding call [NEW]
* Email 4a: Sign up for SRO account (generated by the service)
* Email 4b: Sign for submitter account (generated by the service)
* Email 5: Post-onboarding call [NEW]

Feedback from the team suggested that if people read it, the content of the onboarding pack was helpful and set the scene for a successful and speedy onboarding call. But many people were not reading, or only skimming, the pack prior to the onboarding call. This led to problems including:

* the call taking longer due to the SRO having more questions
* the SRO not having read the grant determination letter in advance and therefore being unable to sign the legal declaration, which could result in onboarding having to be postponed
* incorrect expectations of the service from the SRO, for instance about training eligibility and evidence requirements

The UCD team worked with NHSBSA operations to improve the onboarding process to address these issues.

There have also been significant issues with multi factor authentication (MFA) during onboarding. It’s taken a week or more for some users to be able to log into the service because of these.

## What we will do next

We are implementing the onboarding improvements and will look at the claim processing analytics to see if the rate of approved claims goes up.

We are also analysing the MFA problems users have had and will be producing new guidance to help address these.

We also plan to talk to DHSC to look at how we can help people who are used to the Workforce Development FUnd (WDF) to better understand the new service.